You wake up in your midden heap behind the Rusty Nail, a notorious dive in the docklands of Dead Man's Quay. Brushing some of the stickier bits of garbage from your ghost-trousers you stretch and look around you. A rat the size of a small dog scurries through the pool of flickering light around the back door lantern of the Rusty Nail and back into the fetid darkness. From a jumble of broken casks further down the alley comes the phlegmatic snores of a dead pirate in a faded red coat, a broken jug of grog still dangling from the fingers of his partially rotted hand.    All around you rises the rustling and scratching of hundreds of cockroaches, which, momentarily disturbed when you climbed out of the rubbish heap, now resume their industrious search for anything edible. Sounds like home.

You make your way up the dockfront towards the custom house that Smiles can usually be found around. An imposing stone building with its own guard corps, the customs office squats at the outermost end of the Bone Dock, housing the Dead Man's Quay customs dept which takes a cut of all cargo shipped in or out of the city. No single organization in Dead Man's Quay is more corrupt - or wealthier - than the city Customs Office, and for those interested in comings and goings through the city, there's no better place to loiter.

Smiles is your best friend, a child who died slightly younger than you from the savage cut across the throat which also gave him his nickname. Like most children you've met, he either doesn't know, or care to remember, what he was called when alive.

You notice his small frame crouched against the side of the building under and office window, apparently playing with an haphazard collection of marbles the dusty alleyway. You wander up and squat down next to him. He greets you without looking up from his game.

"Dead swallow"

You have no idea what that means. 

"Huh?" 

"Dead swallow. Came in last night. You heard anything?"

"No I thought rumours were your thing"

"They are." He sounds frustrated. "Or - they're supposed to be. This one though.. " He stops to line up a shot, flicking a sea-green marble towards a chipped catseye and settling back on his heels with a sigh. "I don't know."

You shrug, staring into the dust. After a moment you break the silence.

"Let's go aboard"

"Thing about a ship like that, I mean she's not big, but she's fast, anyone can tell that - customs complaining they haven't checked in - wait what?" He looks up at you, evidently only just noticing your suggestion.

"Let's find it, and get aboard." You stand up and brush dirt from your hands "beats waiting for them to show up here with a manifest."

He stares at you for a second, clearly trying to get his train of thought back on its rails. For a smart kid he could be amazingly dumb sometimes.

"I was about to suggest that" he eventually scoffs

"Sure Smiles."  Whatever.

-------------

In the eternal night of Dead Man's Quay it is not a difficult thing for two ghost children to sneak up to a ship at dock. What is considerably more difficult however is getting aboard.

The Dead Swallow looks every bit as fast as Smiles had suggested, its black hull long and lean, its decks, even in the chaos of loading, clear and well kept. Crew members, piratical looking to a corpse, are helping with the loading of a pile of large crates into the hold with the docks crane. Two of the pirates are standing sentry by the gang plank.

"Well that's not going to work" Smiles whispers from behind you. 

"Nonsense" you whisper back. "Couple of dock rats like us got to be able to sneak aboard a ship or what are we? I won't be able to look myself in the mirror."

"You have a mirror?" Smiles sounds surprised

"Well, no," you admit, "but metaphorically." 

"I'm pretty sure that's not a metaphor."

You stare at your friend. "Smiles, shut up. You're, what, six?" 

"Probably seven" he says defensively "I think."

You shake your head and turn back to the lantern-lit dock around the Dead Swallow, trying to ignore Smiles' mumbling. It seems to have the disconcerting effect of creating wet aspirated noises from the gaping wound in his neck making it sound like someone very unwell is gasping along with everything he says.

 "- I read things i do, interest in further education -"  

"Whatever. how are we going to get on that thing?"

"-lifelong learner." Smiles continues "well, you know what I mean."

"Smiles!" He looks at you. "What's the plan."

He gives you a dirty look then crawls over to get a better look at the dock.

"Bow-line" he says, nodding at the rope holding the bow of the ship to a pylon on the dock. "We climb it."

You take a look at the rope.

"Isn't it kind of well lit?" 

Smiles shrugs. "We're pretty fast. Well I am."

"What if we just hide in one one of these crates? They'll load us directly into the hold."

"And then? The hold will be pretty well lit too you know."

"Hmm.."

The look Smiles gives you makes it clear that unless you want to be known as a wimp for the rest of.. however long children here last anyway, that you better go with his rope climbing suggestion. Besides, the bow of the ship looks well shadowed and abandoned; a great place to begin looking around.

You make your way stealthily to the bollard that the bow-line is tied to. The final sprint is about 10 meters completely in the open. It is mostly unlit but two dead children climbing the lines will certainly clear enough to any sailor looking in that direction that it will need to be done quickly and silently.

Smiles goes first, sprinting to the foot of the line, his neck flapping a little as he runs, and scurries up the rope. It's easy to forget because he's so small, but Smiles has been on the docks longer than anyone can remember, and negotiating a ship's rigging is as natural to him as breathing.

You wait a minute for the crew to start negotiating another load on the crane before sprinting to the edge of the dock and clambering up the line. Out of breath, with burning hands you climb onto the shadowy forecastle to see Smiles holding a finger to his lips. You hold your breath for a moment and hear two male voices, muffled but audible, eminating up through the boards of the deck.

"He's not back yet" the voice is a harsh whisper. You suspect that, like Smiles, the owner might have not made it to the land of the dead with his throat completely in tact.

"That is not your concern Withers," comes a deep growl in response.

"On the contrary _Mister_ White," the whisperer answers with an audible tinge of sarcasm "He's carrying our next paycheck ain't he?"

"I said it doesn't concern you Withers!" the growl is louder this time, and has a dangerous edge to it.

There is a tense silence from below for a dozen heartbeats, finally broken by a third speaker, a tired sounding man whose voice is used to authority.

"Withers isn't it your watch above? Well get to it man and enough of this nonsense. Mister White once the loading is complete assemble a shore party and take a look around town. Never can tell with these foreigners; like as not the man's delayed by some fool errand or other but if he's fetched up drunk in a gutter somewhere better we find him than somebody else. Understood?"

A chorus of "aye sir"s rumble up through the planks and you hear movement below. You shoot Smiles a questioning look. Sounds like this missing crew member could be a very interesting person to catch up with. On the other hand, leave now and you'd be leaving empty handed. This ship might have more secrets - and rewards - to discover.

Deciding you've heard enough, you both clamber back across the rope and scamper behind cover, narrowly avoiding two sailors who emerge onto the forecastle deck on watch. 

Leaving the merchant dock and the Dead Swallow behind, you stroll away from the waterfront, trying to decide what to do with your newly gleaned information.

"I think I saw him you know." you say as soon as you are out of earshot of the crew at the loading dock.

"Who?"

"The man. The one they're going looking for." Smiles looks at you sharply

"that so..."

"This morning, out the front of the Rusty Nail. A guy was being chased by some uniforms. Looked foreign." You try to recall what the man had looked like. "He was holding something. Had it wrapped up."

Smiles gazes back towards the harbour absently. 

"If that was him he didn't make it back to the ship, at least not immediately. Maybe the bluecoats caught up with him after all." 

"Sounds like a lead if ever I heard one. Shall we go check the gaol and see what the government men might have dragged in?"

Smiles sticks his tongue into his cheek and wobbles his now eternally wobbling loose molar, a habit of his when thinking.

"We don't know where he was taken. We don't even know if he was caught - but the navy men will be talking, that's for sure. I say we pay a visit to the garrison barracks and see what we can find out." He turns to spit blood from his loose tooth into the gutter and grins "You'd be surprised at what you hear if you just listen in the right places."


Dead Mans' Quay must have been a live city at some point; the ghostly shapes of its buildings rise from ruined foundations, and in some parts of the city whole streets of it are still visible in the world of the living, superimposed on the city's eternal night in hazy and smudged colours as if only half remembered.

The navy barracks near the Bone Docks is not one of these, a small square building obviously built more for utility than war, capable of housing no more than one hundred men at a time, and as far as you can tell, entirely dead. This is the home of the dead naval officers who police the docks as best they can at the behest of the city's Governor. 

The barracks is separated from the government warehouses that surround it on both sides by cramped alleys. The front door is open and lantern light spills from the doorway onto the cobbles. Two off-duty officers are seated on barrels next to the door, smoking clay pipes and talking, as far as you can tell, about bear fights.

You look at Smiles. 

"Ok what now?"
